## About My Writing Style

In this book, I use Spivak pronouns[^spivak-pronouns] in order to avoid the long-standing issue of gendered pronouns in English prose. I've tried all the usual solutions: the universal "he", the universal "she", the hybrid "s/he", alternating "he" and "she", the singular "they", and even the animate "it". I dislike them all. I started using Spivak pronouns around 2011 in a few articles and found that I like their unambiguity and their conspicuousness. When I write that "e got what e had coming to em", the reader sees something odd, learns what it means, and thinks about systemic gender issues, all without my having to take up a cause, fly a banner, or get involved in any name calling. I only wish that the pronoun "e" didn't sound so much like "he" in my head when I subvocalise what I'm reading. One step at a time.

[^spivak-pronouns]: Search the web to learn more. Tutorial: e, eir, em, emself. I'll use these pronouns to refer to, for example, a hypothetical person whose gender I have no need to specify.

Also, I use humor in this writing. I take jabs. I'm writing this book because I'm tired of arguing about these things. That mental fatigue results from years of frustration and resentment, resulting in hopelessness. I use humor to cope. I also believe that humor relies on mass collusion about insensitivity. By that I mean that we agree&mdash;silently and without formal negotiation&mdash;on a variety of topics about which we accept my saying insensitive things, interpreting them as attempts at humor, rather than genuine attacks, or sexism, racism, ageism, ableism, nor any other -ism. While this makes humor happen, and it also leaves tremendous room for horrendous mistakes. As a result, I might write something insensitive that some readers didn't sign up to read, so let me apologise for that now.

> I acknowledge that I will have written some insensitive things here, that I take a risk by doing this, and that I do it purely as an indulgence in the name of "adding style" to my writing. While I believe that nobody has the right *not* to be offended, I understand that some people will find some topics out of bounds for insensitivity. If you find something in this book that hurts you, then I would like the opportunity to make amends, so please point it out to me privately and give me a chance to fix it. I will make some jokes that will not land properly, and I will say some things, the insensitive of which my privilege will have blinded me to. If you yell at me in public, then I will defend myself vigorously and we will get nowhere. If you yell at me in private with love, then I promise that I will listen to you and try to work things out. Deal?

